
Assignment-based Subjective Questions


Q. From your analysis of the categorical variables from the dataset, what could you infer about their effect on the dependent variable?
Answer: 1. Between month Jun to Sept, bike demand is high. Jan has the lowest demand.
2. Bike demand is similar throughout the weekdays.
3. There is no significance change in bike demand with working and non working days.
4. Bike demand is less in spring season compared to other seasons.

Q. Why is it important to use drop_first=True during dummy variable creation?
Answer: It basically help reducing the extra column created during dummery variable creation. Which can
ultimately reduce the complexity of the model.

Q.Looking at the pair-plot among the numerical variables, which one has the highest correlation
with the target variable?
Answer: "atemp"


General Subjective Questions


Q. Explain the linear regression algorithm in detail?
Answer. Linear Regression is a machine learning algorithm based on supervised learning. It performs a regression task.
Regression models a target prediction value based on independent variables. It is mostly used for finding out the relationship 
between variables and forecasting. Different regression models differ based on – the kind of relationship between dependent and 
independent variables they are considering, and the number of independent variables getting used.

Q.Explain the Anscombe’s quartet in detail?
Answer. It can be defined as the group of 4 dataset which are almost identical in simple descriptive statistics, but there are 
some unusual feature in the dataset that fools the regression model if built. They have very different distributions and
appear different in scatter plot.

Q. What is Pearson’s R?
Answer. In Statistics, the Pearson's Correlation Coefficient is also referred to as Pearson's r, the Pearson product-moment 
correlation coefficient, or bivariate correlation. It is a statistic that measures the linear correlation between two variables. 
Like all correlations, it also has a numerical value that lies between -1.0 and +1.0. 
Whenever we discuss correlation in statistics, it is generally Pearson's correlation coefficient. However, it cannot capture nonlinear 
relationships between two variables and cannot differentiate between dependent and independent variables.

Q. What is scaling? Why is scaling performed? What is the difference between normalized scaling
and standardized scaling?
Answer.It is a step of data Pre-Processing which is applied to independent variables to normalize the data within a particular range.
It also helps in speeding up the calculations in an algorithm.
It is applied because:
Most of the times, collected data set contains features highly varying in magnitudes, units and range. If scaling is not done then algorithm 
only takes magnitude in account and not units hence incorrect modelling. To solve this issue, we have to do scaling to bring all the variables
 to the same level of magnitude.
It is important to note that scaling just affects the coefficients and none of the other parameters like t-statistic, F-statistic, p-values,
 R-squared, etc.

Q.You might have observed that sometimes the value of VIF is infinite. Why does this happen?
Answer. If it is infinite the this shows that a perfect correlation between two independent variables. In the case of perfect correlation,
 we get R2 =1, which lead to 1/(1-R2) infinity. To solve this problem we need to drop one of the variables from the dataset which is causing 
this perfect multicollinearity.

Q.What is a Q-Q plot? Explain the use and importance of a Q-Q plot in linear regression?
Answer. Q-Q Plots (Quantile-Quantile plots) are plots of two quantiles against each other. A quantile is a fraction where certain values fall 
below that quantile. For example, the median is a quantile where 50% of the data fall below that point and 50% lie above it. The purpose of Q-Q 
plots is to find out if two sets of data come from the same distribution. A 45 degree angle is plotted on the Q Q plot; if the two data sets come 
from a common distribution, the points will fall on that reference line.
